<h2><b>Let's Talk: It's not as bad as you fear. (#004)</h2></b><br><br>Very often, people like to forget how powerful fear is as a tool. <br><br>By convincing someone not only to be scared, but that their fear is justified, you're able to bypass any sort of rational processes that would typically lead up to making a decision and get straight to the emotions. It's this process that is very often used in scams, where you're given only a few hours/days to make the payment before your files are lost forever, or a faked payment can't be disputed anymore, or whatever. The exact nature of the scam here is besides the point, I'm merely trying to explain exactly how this fear response can affect you. <br><br>Another place you see such a response is, of course, in business. You can pressure (read: scare) people into making a purchase with similar techniques as the ones I described above, subconsciously forcing people to do something they otherwise wouldn't want to do. If you learn to recognise this technique, you'll see it everywhere -- limited-time deals with questionable authenticity, "last gas station before Texas", feigned exclusivity at higher-cost branches of a chain, the list goes on. When I say everywhere, I mean everywhere. This is marketing 101 out here, and it's important to spot these techniques when you're confronted by them. <br><br>My point is: Fear is a powerful and, more importantly, profitable tool. The fear response has become especially popular on social media, where creators are able to scare people into engaging with a video and increase the video's retention rate and, by extension, profitability. Normally, this would be about pop culture stuff, like those clickbait-y headlines about Spiderverse being delayed or whatnot. They're all the same thing. As we move into mid-2024, however, the geopolitical situation around the world is becoming more and more tense. A lot more people are reporting about the war on Gaza, or whatever the fuck Russia is up to in Ukraine, or indeed the various atrocities in Sudan, the Congo, Xinjiang, or wherever else. <br><br>It does make sense that they're doing that -- I can say without much doubt that we're closer to cold war-era tensions that we have been since the USSR collapsed, but we're not there yet. And people must stop pretending that we are. <br><br>Let me first clear up what I'm saying won't happen: World War III. WW3 is what most pundits seem pretty confident will happen, and while I do understand why they're saying that, there are a lot of important details that they're missing. They're omitting these because, you guessed it, it triggers the fear response. Remember: Fear is profitable, so the pundits and commentators like to exploit that. <br><br>Governments are perpetuating this for a different and arguably preventative reason. Most world leaders are sane(ish), and any sane person would see the deployment of troops as an absolute last resort. Assuming the majority of the international stage agrees, we can say that the reason that so many defence secretaries, spokespeople and industries are preparing for a third world war is because they don't want it to happen. By increasing defence spending, they are trying to scare off an attack before it even begins -- it's effectively mutually assured destruction but in a 21st-century wrapping. <br><br>This is demonstrated by the largely unsuccessful retaliation from Iran a few weeks ago. Iran was, as the most likely story goes, under domestic pressure to retaliate against Israel's strike on the Iranian embassy in Damascus. At the same time, Iran really didn't want to escalate any tensions with Israel, because, well, Israel is proven to be capable of and willing to commit genocide. So as a sort-of compromise, Iran deployed a series of drones and cruise missiles, which were never going to make their mark in the first place. They were far too slow for that, and the iron dome intercepted them almost as soon as the drones entered range. There was one casualty from the shrapnel of an intercepted missile.<br> <br>This pseudo-retaliation made the more hard-line Iranians happy, and it was also "harmless" enough that it didn't seem worth any sort of response from Israel yet. So while the two's relationship is still difficult, they were, at that point, even. That's the sort of stage that most of the world is currently at. Most of the defence increases are very much preventative (see: show of force), because there's only a handful of people I can name who actually want a world war and they all know that they would lose their allies if they tried to start one. Even they have some sense, apparently. <br><br>So most commentators seem to be convinced that we're looking at a third world war soon. I disagree, and I hope I'm right. Most of the points the commentators make are true, to an extent -- these will only lead to a more local escalation in the middle east, though. (sidenote: if there is no ceasefire in Gaza, a local escalation is inevitable) The reason the media is almost praying for a third world war, however, is the same effect I described all the way at the start: Fear. If people are scared, they will not only panic buy, but also interact more with the video that gave them that fear and maybe even follow the creator because they seem trustworthy. <br><br>Remember: Your fear is somebody else's dividends. We do live in an unbelievably tense time, both domestically and internationally, in most countries. And my example of World War III was, while very relevant, not the only time I've seen this happen. I could make the same example with the US elections, or with Argentina or the protest restrictions in Europe. I'm not saying everything is all sunshine and rainbows, because every fabrication has an element of truth in it. I'm just saying that it's probably not as bad as you fear it is.