<h2><b>Let's Talk: Would you vote for Hitler? (#007)</h2></b><br><br>I know, that's one hell of a title. But stay with me on this one. Also a disclaimer, I don't in any way agree with what Hitler and his government, military, youth organisation etc etc etc did. War crimes are bad kids. <br><br>That being said. <br><br>I'd like you to imagine yourself in Germany, in 1932. About as old as you are now, except you were born and grew up somewhere in Germany. If you live in a city now, feel free to imagine yourself in a city, or don't. It doesn't really matter, probably. Depending how old you are, you might have living memory of what was known at the time as the Great War, which we today refer to as World War 1. Your parents certainly remember it, and your father was probably conscripted and deployed to somewhere in France, Belgium or the Netherlands. He'll probably refuse to ever talk about the war, and that's for good reason. War, after all, is horrible. The first war considered to be fought with modern machinery especially so. <br><br>You might consider yourself lucky that your father made it back alive. Many of your friends won't have that luxury. However, returning home to a country torn to shreds first by the war itself and then the treaty of Versailles and the seemingly infinite war debt to the Allied forces, as well as the dismantling of major steel and fabrication industries leading to tens of thousands of jobs being lost, perhaps he would have preferred to be put out of the misery he didn't know was coming for him. <br><br>After the Great War, imperial Germany was dismantled and the Weimar Republic was proclaimed in... you guessed it, the Thuringian city of Weimar. To very roughly -- and arguably very incorrectly -- summarise, this was a somewhat half-baked attempt at a democratic welfare state in Germany. Despite the country's many cultural advances and liberties, including votes for women, a leap forwards in the areas of film, music and art and one of the most liberal gay scenes in Europe promoted by the country's cabarets, it started off well on the back foot. Already crippled by war debt, the Weimar Republic would struggle to build up any sort of industry to pay off said debt. The conflict around the Franco-German border and the following hyperinflation (4.2 trillionMark equalled 1 Dollar at the worst point) would only add to that, forcing the Weimar government to change to a different currency entirely after only a few years of its existence. <br><br>Not even this would be the end, though, as the Great Depression would ravage the already struggling republic only a few years after the first economic crisis was dealt with. Faced with an incredibly stubborn minority government, the president and chancellor would be legislating based almost solely on emergency powers for a while. This, however, would change when a patriotic young man from Austria climbs the stage with his own radical ideas. Adolf Hitler was active in politics since the early 1920s and, while he didn't found the NSDAP, he would soon become the well-known face of the party. The spread of NSDAP ideology through the papers and the increase in sentiment against the Young plan for war debt meant the previously barely relevant party would achieve second place in the elections of 1930, despite their seeming irrelevance in the years before. <br><br>The NSDAP used the great depression to their advantage, blaming the Weimar Republic's struggles on capitalism, liberalism and, of course, semites -- A far broader term used with far more negative connotations to refer to anybody of Jewish heritage -- and took advantage of the dramatically increasing anticapitalist, antiliberal and antisemitic sentiment in the general population. The antisemitic part didn't do all too well in more urban areas quite yet, but that would come later. The years after the 1930 election would only lead people to struggle more, as the money set aside for unemployment support began to run out and centre-left coalition government collapsed. (cont)<br>As I mentioned, the Chancellor would now be forced to run the country under emergency powers.<br> <br>The first few actions of the chancellor in question would be to introduce strict austerity policy in an attempt to save the Weimar economy. Spending would be cut to the bone and taxes raised, leading to even more people being forced out of their jobs as corporations were taxed more and more on their profits. If the unemployment support was running dry before, it was a bit like Death Valley now as mass unemployment reached new heights every single day. Chancellor Brüning's austerity policy -- what he saw as the only alternative to another round of hyperinflation and war debts -- would become more and more unpopular in the minority government he was actively circumventing. It would become even less popular among the people, however, who were bearing the brunt of what was effectively state-enforced poverty. <br><br>Finally, in 1932, the minority government was dissolved and new elections held. This is where you come in, as the choice is yours to make.<br><br>One option is more of the same, and the same is as good as hell. Property is unaffordable, most people are struggling to find even one job, let alone two. Unemployment benefits are enough to last for half a day, perhaps a full day if you stretch them. You can claim them once a week.<br><br>The other option is the new, radical NSDAP. Today, they’re referred to as the Nazi party, but back then, they were socialists. Swooping in to save the clearly struggling working class, Hitler’s NSDAP would promote jobs, food and housing for everybody who needed. His party would push to take the country back from the foreign invaders, who were stealing resources that were meant to go to good German citizens. To the upper class, he promoted a unification of all German-speaking people – including those in Austria, Prussia and the Sudetenland area of Czechoslovakia. <br><br>In a time of crisis, it was this radical change that people were looking for. And Adolf Hitler was more than happy to deliver it. His popularity surged, especially among the youth, who were already terrified for what more years of strict austerity might bring. The years of crisis and economic despair were blamed on the Versailles treaty, something which was in living memory for the vast majority of the population. Germany would be painted as the poor victim of the Great War, slammed with impossibly high war debts as a punishment for something the population had no control over. The NSDAP proposed an alternative, a shift away from the global capitalist superpowers to a new system. After the failed attempt at democratic capitalism, trying something else seemed like a far better option. After all, it can’t get much worse than it already is.<br><br>With that all being said, you read in the local newspaper that elections are being held. A few days or weeks later, you make your way to the polls, preparing to decide who you want to see run the country next. Will you choose more of the same, or will you choose radical change, with the promise of job, food and future on the horizon?<br><br>I have a feeling your answer won’t be as simple as you thought when you started reading this.<br><br>Again. I'm not saying what Hitler did was good, because what he did was not good. My point is that he was popular, and I'm trying to explain why. Perhaps you'll notice a few paralells to today in there as well